API
----------

class flask.ext.cache.Cache(app=None, with_jinja2_ext=True, config=None)
This class is used to control the cache objects.

add(*args, **kwargs)
Proxy function for internal cache object.

cached(timeout=None, key_prefix='view/%s', unless=None)
Decorator. Use this to cache a function. By default the cache key is view/request.path. You are able to use this decorator with any function by changing the key_prefix. If the token %s is located within the key_prefix then it will replace that with request.path

Example:

# An example view function
@cache.cached(timeout=50)
def big_foo():
    return big_bar_calc()

# An example misc function to cache.
@cache.cached(key_prefix='MyCachedList')
def get_list():
    return [random.randrange(0, 1) for i in range(50000)]

my_list = get_list()
Note
You MUST have a request context to actually called any functions that are cached.

New in version 0.4: The returned decorated function now has three function attributes assigned to it. These attributes are readable/writable.

uncached
The original undecorated function
cache_timeout
The cache timeout value for this function. For a custom value to take affect, this must be set before the function is called.
make_cache_key
A function used in generating the cache_key used.
Parameters:	
timeout – Default None. If set to an integer, will cache for that amount of time. Unit of time is in seconds.
key_prefix –
Default ‘view/%(request.path)s’. Beginning key to . use for the cache key.

New in version 0.3.4: Can optionally be a callable which takes no arguments but returns a string that will be used as the cache_key.

unless – Default None. Cache will always execute the caching facilities unless this callable is true. This will bypass the caching entirely.
clear()
Proxy function for internal cache object.

delete(*args, **kwargs)
Proxy function for internal cache object.

delete_many(*args, **kwargs)
Proxy function for internal cache object.

delete_memoized(f, *args, **kwargs)
Deletes the specified functions caches, based by given parameters. If parameters are given, only the functions that were memoized with them will be erased. Otherwise all versions of the caches will be forgotten.

Example:

@cache.memoize(50)
def random_func():
    return random.randrange(1, 50)

@cache.memoize()
def param_func(a, b):
    return a+b+random.randrange(1, 50)
>>> random_func()
43
>>> random_func()
43
>>> cache.delete_memoized('random_func')
>>> random_func()
16
>>> param_func(1, 2)
32
>>> param_func(1, 2)
32
>>> param_func(2, 2)
47
>>> cache.delete_memoized('param_func', 1, 2)
>>> param_func(1, 2)
13
>>> param_func(2, 2)
47
Delete memoized is also smart about instance methods vs class methods.

When passing a instancemethod, it will only clear the cache related to that instance of that object. (object uniqueness can be overridden

by defining the __repr__ method, such as user id).
When passing a classmethod, it will clear all caches related across all instances of that class.

Example:

class Adder(object):
    @cache.memoize()
    def add(self, b):
        return b + random.random()
>>> adder1 = Adder()
>>> adder2 = Adder()
>>> adder1.add(3)
3.23214234
>>> adder2.add(3)
3.60898509
>>> cache.delete_memoized(adder.add)
>>> adder1.add(3)
3.01348673
>>> adder2.add(3)
3.60898509
>>> cache.delete_memoized(Adder.add)
>>> adder1.add(3)
3.53235667
>>> adder2.add(3)
3.72341788
Parameters:	
fname – Name of the memoized function, or a reference to the function.
*args – A list of positional parameters used with memoized function.
**kwargs – A dict of named parameters used with memoized function.
Note
Flask-Cache uses inspect to order kwargs into positional args when the function is memoized. If you pass a function reference into fname instead of the function name, Flask-Cache will be able to place the args/kwargs in the proper order, and delete the positional cache.

However, if delete_memoized is just called with the name of the function, be sure to pass in potential arguments in the same order as defined in your function as args only, otherwise Flask-Cache will not be able to compute the same cache key.

Note
Flask-Cache maintains an internal random version hash for the function. Using delete_memoized will only swap out the version hash, causing the memoize function to recompute results and put them into another key.

This leaves any computed caches for this memoized function within the caching backend.

It is recommended to use a very high timeout with memoize if using this function, so that when the version has is swapped, the old cached results would eventually be reclaimed by the caching backend.

delete_memoized_verhash(f, *args)
Delete the version hash associated with the function.

..warning:

Performing this operation could leave keys behind that have
been created with this version hash. It is up to the application
to make sure that all keys that may have been created with this
version hash at least have timeouts so they will not sit orphaned
in the cache backend.
get(*args, **kwargs)
Proxy function for internal cache object.

get_many(*args, **kwargs)
Proxy function for internal cache object.

init_app(app, config=None)
This is used to initialize cache with your app object

memoize(timeout=None, make_name=None, unless=None)
Use this to cache the result of a function, taking its arguments into account in the cache key.

Information on Memoization.

Example:

@cache.memoize(timeout=50)
def big_foo(a, b):
    return a + b + random.randrange(0, 1000)
>>> big_foo(5, 2)
753
>>> big_foo(5, 3)
234
>>> big_foo(5, 2)
753
New in version 0.4: The returned decorated function now has three function attributes assigned to it.

uncached
The original undecorated function. readable only
cache_timeout
The cache timeout value for this function. For a custom value to take affect, this must be set before the function is called.

readable and writable

make_cache_key
A function used in generating the cache_key used.

readable and writable

Parameters:	
timeout – Default None. If set to an integer, will cache for that amount of time. Unit of time is in seconds.
make_name – Default None. If set this is a function that accepts a single argument, the function name, and returns a new string to be used as the function name. If not set then the function name is used.
unless – Default None. Cache will always execute the caching facilities unelss this callable is true. This will bypass the caching entirely.
New in version 0.5: params make_name, unless

set(*args, **kwargs)
Proxy function for internal cache object.

set_many(*args, **kwargs)
Proxy function for internal cache object.

Changelog
Version 0.13 2014-04-21
Port to Python >= 3.3 (requiring Python 2.6/2.7 for 2.x).
Fixed bug with using per-memoize timeouts greater than the default timeout
Added better support for per-instance memoization.
Various bug fixes
Version 0.12 2013-04-29
Changes jinja2 cache templates to use stable predictable keys. Previously the key for a cache tag included the line number of the template, which made it difficult to predict what the key would be outside of the application.
Adds config variable CACHE_NO_NULL_WARNING to silence warning messages when using ‘null’ cache as part of testing.
Adds passthrough to clear entire cache backend.
Version 0.11.1 2013-04-7
Bugfix for using memoize on instance methods. The previous key was id(self), the new key is repr(self)
Version 0.11 2013-03-23
Fail gracefully in production if cache backend raises an exception.
Support for redis DB number
Jinja2 templatetag cache now concats all args together into a single key instead of treating each arg as a separate key name.
Added delete memcache version hash function
Support for multiple cache objects on a single app again.
Added SpreadSASLMemcached, if a value is greater than the memcached threshold which defaults to 1MB, this splits the value across multiple keys.
Added support to use URL to connect to redis.
Version 0.10.1 2013-01-13
Added warning message when using cache type of ‘null’
Changed imports to relative instead of absolute for AppEngine compatibility
Version 0.10.0 2013-01-05
Added saslmemcached backend to support Memcached behind SASL authentication.
Fixes a bug with memoize when the number of args != number of kwargs
Version 0.9.2 2012-11-18
Bugfix with default kwargs
Version 0.9.1 2012-11-16
Fixes broken memoized on functions that use default kwargs
Version 0.9.0 2012-10-14
Fixes memoization to work on methods.
Version 0.8.0 2012-09-30
Migrated to the new flask extension naming convention of flask_cache instead of flaskext.cache
Removed unnecessary dependencies in setup.py file.
Documentation updates
Version 0.7.0 2012-08-25
Allows multiple cache objects to be instantiated with different configuration values.
Version 0.6.0 2012-08-12
Memoization is now safer for multiple applications using the same backing store.
Removed the explicit set of NullCache if the Flask app is set testing=True
Swapped Conditional order for key_prefix
Version 0.5.0 2012-02-03
Deleting memoized functions now properly functions in production environments where multiple instances of the application are running.
get_memoized_names and get_memoized_keys have been removed.
Added make_name to memoize, make_name is an optional callable that can be passed to memoize to modify the cache_key that gets generated.
Added unless to memoize, this is the same as the unless parameter in cached
memoization now converts all kwargs to positional arguments, this is so that when a function is called multiple ways, it would evaluate to the same cache_key
Version 0.4.0 2011-12-11
Added attributes for uncached, make_cache_key, cache_timeout to the decorated functions.
Version 0.3.4 2011-09-10
UTF-8 encoding of cache key
key_prefix argument of the cached decorator now supports callables.
Version 0.3.3 2011-06-03
Uses base64 for memoize caching. This fixes rare issues where the cache_key was either a tuple or larger than the caching backend would be able to support.

Adds support for deleting memoized caches optionally based on function parameters.

Python 2.5 compatibility, plus bugfix with string.format.

Added the ability to retrieve memoized function names or cache keys.
